New Concept Python Substrings (#575)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/substrings/substrings.md

---
Title: 'Substrings'
Description: 'A substring is a sequence of characters that are part of an original string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A substring is a sequence of characters that are part of an original [string](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/strings). In Python, substrings can be obtained by using the slicing feature on a string variable. A slice can be made in a specific position within the string or it can be made at the default index.

## Syntax

A slice is made by using the open `[` and closed `]` square brackets next to a string variable. Inside the brackets, the position can be given:

```psuedo
string[start:end:step]
```

- `start` gives the initial position the slice will start from (default: 0)
- `end` is the position where the slicing will end (default: -1)

> - `step` indicates the number of steps to take in between indexes (default: 1)

Reviewer: Could we refactor into sentences ending with periods? Maybe something like:

```
- `start` defaults at 0 and gives the initial ...
```

## Examples

> The following examples show different ways of obtaining substrings, all from the same original string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following examples show different ways of obtaining substrings from an original string `name`.
```

```py
name = "Code Ninja"
```

### Retrieving Single Characters

When only one index is specified, a single character is returned. An index of `0` retrieves the first character of the string:

```py
print(name[0])

#Output: C
```

Negative numbers work on the string backwards. For example, index `-1` retrieves the last character of the string:

```py
print(name[-1])

> #Output: a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Output: a
```

```

### Negative Start Index

> Using a negative start index (`-n`) with the default end value gives the last `n` characters of the string. The following gives the last three characters of the string:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using a negative start index (`-n`) with the default end value accesses the last `n` characters of the string. The following gives access to the last three characters of the string:
```

```py
print(name[-3:])

> #Output: nja

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Output: nja
```

```

### End Index

To specify only an end index, use `[:n]`, where `n` is the ending position. This will return the first `n` characters.

```py
print(name[:4])

#Output: Code
```

### Negative Step Value

Given a negative step value, returns the results backward:

```py
reversed = name[::-2]
print(reversed)

#Output: anNeo
```

### Keyword `in`

The `in` keyword can be used to check for a specific substring, like in the example below:

```py
print('de' in name)

#Output: True
```

### `.find()` Method

> The string method [`.find()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/strings/find) can also be used to find a subset. It returns the index of the first occurrence of the substring. If the substring is not found, it returns -1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The string method [`.find()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/strings/find) can also be used to find a subset. It returns the index of the first occurrence of the substring. If the substring is not found, it returns `-1`.
```

```codebyte/python

> print(name.find('ni'))

Reviewer: Should we define `name` here?

Reviewer 2: Good point, it's defined above but we need it for this codebyte to have some output

```suggestion
name = "Code Ninja"
print(name.find('ni'))
```

---
Title: 'Substrings'
Description: 'A substring is a sequence of characters that are part of an original string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> A substring is a sequence of characters that are part of an original string. In Python, substrings can be obtained by using the slicing feature on a [string](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/strings) variable. A slice can be made in a specific position within the string or it can be made at the default index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A substring is a sequence of characters that are part of an original [string](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/strings). In Python, substrings can be obtained by using the slicing feature on a string variable. A slice can be made in a specific position within the string or it can be made at the default index.
```

## Syntax

> A slice is made by using the open `[` and closed `]` brackets on a string variable. Inside the brackets, the position can be given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A slice is made by using the open `[` and closed `]` square brackets next to a string variable. Inside the brackets, the position can be given:
```

```psuedo
string[start:end:step]
```

- `start` gives the initial position the slice will start from (default: 0)
- `end` is the position where the slicing will end (default: -1)
- `step` indicates the number of steps to take in between indexes (default: 1)

## Examples

> The following examples are different ways to obtain subsets of a string. All examples are performed on the same string,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show different ways of obtaining substrings, all from the same original string.
```

```python

> string = "Codecademy"

Reviewer: Could we give this variable another name that can be more discernible within the rest of the examples?

Author: The same string was used [here](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings). They called it `name`, how about that or something like that?

```

### Retrieving Single Characters

> When only one index is specified, a single character is returned. An index of `0` retrieves the character at the beginning of the string:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When only one index is specified, a single character is returned. An index of `0` retrieves the first character of the string:
```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

Reviewer: Let's apply this edit for the rest of the entry.

print(string[0])

> #Output: C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Output: C
```

Reviewer: Let's apply this edit for the rest of the entry.

Reviewer 2: Ditto on this 👆

```

> Negative numbers work on the string backwards. For example, index `-1` retrieves the character at the end of the string:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Negative numbers work on the string backwards. For example, index `-1` retrieves the last character of the string:
```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

print(string[-1])

> #Output: y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Output: y
```

```

### Negative Start Index

Using a negative start index (`-n`) with the default end value gives the last `n` characters of the string. The following gives the last three characters of the string:

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

print(string[-3:])

> #Output: emy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Output: emy
```

```

### End Index

To specify only an end index, use `[:n]`, where `n` is the ending position. This will return the first `n` characters.

```python
print(string[:4])

#Output: Code
```

### Negative Step Value

Given a negative step value, returns the results backward:

```python
reversed = string[::-2]
print(reversed)

#Output: yeaeo
```

### Keyword `in`

> The `in` keyword checks for a specific value in a sequence. The following checks for `de` in `string`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `in` keyword can be used to check for a specific substring, like in the example below:
```

```py
print('de' in name)

#Output: True
```

### `.find()` Method

The string method [`.find()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/strings/find) can also be used to find a subset. It returns the index of the first occurrence of the substring. If the substring is not found, it returns -1.

> ```codebyte/py
> print(name.find('ni'))
> 
> #Output: -1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/python
print(name.find('ni'))
```

No need for output in the codebyte snippet. I also suggest a spell-out of the language when using Codebytes per a revelation from [inside a file from the client modules repo for language options](https://github.com/Codecademy/client-modules/blob/main/packages/codebytes/src/consts.ts).

> ```python

Reviewer: Could we actually turn this into a Codebyte snippet since it is the last example?

Author: ok!
